Lab 10

Instructions:

    Open the terminal and using vi/vim create a new script and name it lab10
    Insert at the top of your file a comment with your name, class and section number (e.g. #John Doe, EMT 2390L - OL123). 
    Your script will help the user download a webpage from the internet and either edit it or load it into the default browser. To accomplish that you script will:
    Ask the user for a URL (e.g. www.citytech.cuny.edu) and store it in a variable called website
    Use the command wget to retrieve a copy of the webpage. (NOTE: Usually the downloaded file is called index.html and is stored in the current directory).
    Show a menu to the user with the following options:
        Check availability: This option will allow to determine whether the URL is reachable. Use the ping command to check this. (Hint: use option -w followed by the number of seconds the command should execute e.g. ping -w 5 cuny.edu, to run the ping command for 5 seconds) (Note: In some UNIX/Linux/Mac OS versions the ping command is disabled. If that’s your case you need to download it).
        Edit the file: This option will open the downloaded file with vi (e.g. vi index.html)
        View it in browser: This option will launch the default browser and open the downloaded file. To accomplish you can use the command: firefox or sensible-browser followed by the downloaded file (e.g. firefox index.html OR sensible-browser index.html)
        Exit: To exit the script
    Use the appropriate statements to continuously execute the option chosen by the user until Exit is chosen.
    Save the script and make it executable (HINT: use the chmod command with mode 755).
    Execute the script (HINT: use dot slash ./ combination, followed by your script name) and fix any errors.
    Submit here on Blackboard your script file. DO NOT submit screen shots, ZIP files, or any other kind of file. Submission is on Blackboard ONLY. DO NOT send emails or messages, use the Blackboard link to the lab in order to submit.
    Deadline: 12/09 at 11:59PM